.TH MKX 1 "July 2024" "mkx"
.SH NAME
mkx \- a Make new exectuable shell script file from template
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkx
[\fI-bhsvx\fR] [\fI-i\fR \fIINTERPRETER\fR] [\fI-t\fR \fITEMPLATE\fR] [\fIFILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkx
creates a new executable shell script file from a template.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Only write a bare script with only the shebang line, without template.
.TP
.B \-f
Force overwriting the file if it already exists.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help screen.
.TP
.B \-i \fIINTERPRETER\fR
Specify the interpreter to use in the shebang line. Defaults to $fI/usr/bin/env bash\fR.
.TP
.B \-s
Use /bin/sh as interpreter in the shebang line. Implies \-b.
.TP
.B \-t \fITEMPLATE\fR
Specify the template to use.
.TP
.B \-v
Show the version number.
.TP
.B \-x
Make existing file executable, like doing \fIchmod a+x\fT. This is only provided as a convenience and will not output new files or change any existing ones.
.SH TEMPLATES
mkx uses Mustache templates to generate scripts. The templates have the extension of \fI.mustache\fR
and they are looked for in the following directories:
.TP
.B \fI$MKX_TEMPLATES_DIR\fR
The directory specified by the environment variable \fI$MKX_TEMPLATES_DIR\fR. Defaults to \fItemplates\fR in the script directory.
.TP
.B \fI$SCRIPT_DIR/templates\fR
The directory \fItemplates\fR in the script directory, where the script is located.
.TP
.B \fI$SCRIPT_DIR/../share/mkx/templates\fR
The directory \fI../share/mkx/templates\fR relative to the script directory.
.TP
.B \fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mkx/templates\fR
The directory \fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/mkx/templates\fR if the environment variable \fI$XDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR is set. If not, it defaults to \fI$HOME/.config/mkx/templates\fR.
.TP
The following variables are available:
.TP
.B \fIdate\fR
The date when the script was created in format \fI%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S %Z\fR.
.TP
.B \fIinterpreter\fR
The interpreter specified with the \fI-i\fR option or the default interpreter.
.TP
.B \fImkx_version\fR
The version of mkx.
.TP
.B \fImkx_version\fR
The version of mkx.
.TP
.B \fIscript_name\fR
The name of the script.
.TP
.B \fIscript_name_sc\fR
The name of the script in lowercase.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rémino Rem: <https://remino.net/>
.SH "ISSUES"
GitHub: <https://github.com/remino/mkx>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Rémino Rem.
Licence ISC: <https://opensource.org/licenses/ISC>
